# go-fuzz-utils
`go-fuzz-utils` is a helper package for use with [go-fuzz](https://github.com/dvyukov/go-fuzz) or other fuzzing utilities. It provides a simple interface to produce random values for various data types and can recursively populate complex structures from raw fuzz data generated by `go-fuzz`. Spend more time writing property tests, and less time with ugly data type conversions, edge cases supporting full value ranges, `nil` cases, etc. Simply feed `go-fuzz` data into `go-fuzz-utils` to produce fuzzed objects and use them in your property tests as needed.

When populating variables, you can configure a number of parameters:
- Minimum/maximum sizes of strings, maps, slices
- Probability of `nil` for maps, slices, pointers
- Depth limit for nested structures
- Toggle for filling unexported fields in structures
- Probability of skipping a field when filling (to randomly fuzz over valid structure fields)

## Setup
Import this package into your `go-fuzz` tests:
```go
import "github.com/trailofbits/go-fuzz-utils"
```

Construct a new `TypeProvider` using `NewTypeProvider(...)`.
```go
func Fuzz(data []byte) int {
	// Create a new type provider
	tp, err := go_fuzz_utils.NewTypeProvider(data)
	if err != nil {
		return 0 // not enough data was supplied, exit gracefully for the next fuzzing iteration
	}
[...]
```
Note: the data `go-fuzz` generates on some runs may be too small to construct the `TypeProvider` or derive all the values needed for your test. Ensure errors are handled appropriately. If one is encountered, exit gracefully to continue to the next run where more data may be produced. Fill parameters such as mapping/slice/string length and `nil` probability can be set using the `SetParams[...]` methods.

## Simple data types
You can obtain the necessary type of data with exported functions such as:
```go
	// Obtain a byte
	b, err := tp.GetByte()
...
	// Obtain a bool
	bl, err := tp.GetBool()
...
	// Obtain an int16
	i16, err := tp.GetInt16()
...
	// Obtain a float32
	f32, err := tp.GetFloat32()
...
	// Obtain a fixed-length string
	strFixed, err := tp.GetFixedString(7)
...
	// Obtain a dynamic-length string
	strDynamic, err := tp.GetString() // uses TypeProvider parameters to determine length/nil possibility
...
	// Obtain a fixed-length byte array
	bytesFixed, err := tp.GetNBytes(2)
...
	// Obtain a dynamic-length byte array
	bytesDynamic, err := tp.GetBytes() // uses TypeProvider parameters to determine length/nil possibility
```


## Structures
`go-fuzz-utils` exposes a generic `Fill(...)` method which can populate simple data types, mappings, arrays, and arbitrary structures recursively via reflection. 

For example, given the following structure:
```go
	type Person struct {
		ID uint64
		Name string
		Photo []byte
		Employed bool
		EmergencyContact *Person
	}
```

You can simply perform a `Fill` call to populate it with the fuzz data. Even though `Person` has a circular reference in `EmergencyContact`, you can configure depth limits and `nil` bias settings to prevent infinite loops while giving us various deeply nested structures.
```go
	// Create a person struct and fill it recursively. 
	var p Person
	err := tp.Fill(&p)    
```

Similarly, you can fill other data types as needed:
```go
	// Create an array of mappings and fill them
	mappingArr := make([]map[string]int, 15)
	err = tp.Fill(&mappingArr)
```
